.. _Python: http://www.python.org
.. _DRMAA: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/DRMAA
.. _`Oracle Grid Engine`: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sun_Grid_Engine
.. _`Christian Pérez-Llamas`: http://bg.upf.edu/group/people/people.christian.php
.. _`Biomedical Genomics Research Group`: http://bg.upf.edu
.. _CRG: http://pasteur.crg.es/
.. _`Institut de Biologia Evolutiva`: http://www.ibe.upf-csic.es/
.. _`Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported License`: http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/3.0/

Introduction
============

*Wok* is a workflow management system implemented in Python_ that makes very easy to structure the workflows, parallelize their execution and monitor its progress among other things. It is designed in a modular way allowing to adapt it to different infraestructures.

For the time being it is strongly focused on clusters implementing any DRMAA_ compatible resource manager (i.e. `Oracle Grid Engine`_) which working nodes have a shared folder in common. Other, more flexible infrastructures (such as the Amazon EC2) are considered for future implementations.

Workflows in *Wok* are defined in an *xml* file with the *.flow* extension. This definition includes:

- the different modules (or pieces of processing)
- the interconnections between modules (i.e. the input of module B links with the output of module A)
- explicit dependencies (i.e. module A cannot be executed until module B has finished)
- descriptions that can be used to generate documentation automatically or to create web forms

Each module corresponds with a piece of software that has to be run in order to process some input and generate an output. For now, only Python_ scripts are allowed, but they can be used to execute software written in other languages.

Workflows in *Wok* can be treated as any software project and managed with version control system tools and the IDE of your choice.

It is recommended, but not necessary, that the workflow definition (*.flow* file) and the modules implementations are in the same folder. As for example, the path where the flow is located is included in the *PYTHONPATH* automatically.

*Wok* can be used as a terminal script or can be runned in server mode.

The execution of a workflow in the terminal is done using the *wok-run.py* script which allows few options:

- An instance name (-n name), which allows to run the same workflow many times simultaneously independently
- Configuration files (-c file.conf), the configuration can be splitted in as much files as desired
- Configuration parameters (-D param=value), which overwrite any previous configuration in configuration files

The workflow definition file (i.e. *myworkflow.flow*) is passed as the first argument.

To monitor the execution of the workflow there are different resources available:

- The web server that allows to interact with the engine in a very straightforward way. Recommended!.
- The logs emited by the *wok-run.py* through the standard output,
- The intermediate files generated by *Wok* (i.e. the tasks output files)

It has been designed for workflow developers who feel more confortable programming than doing hundred of clicks and drag & drop's, and also for those who want infraestructure flexibility and full control and monitorization of the execution.

Authors
-------

It is being developed by `Christian Pérez-Llamas`_ under the `Biomedical Genomics Research Group`_.

Acknowledgements
----------------

*Wok* is used in different projects of the group by many of the group members who contribute with great feedback.

Maik Röder (at CRG_) and Giovanni Dall'Olio (at `Institut de Biologia Evolutiva`_) are also giving nice feedback that helps on improving the software and the documentation.

License
-------

This documentation is licensed under a `Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported License`_

The Wok software is licensed under the GPL v3.0, for more information read the attached LICENSE file.

