Introduction
============

Wok is a simple workflow management system implemented in Python that makes very easy to structure the workflows, parallelize their execution and monitor its progress among other things. It is designed in a modular way allowing to adapt it to different infraestructures.

For the time being it is strongly focused on clusters implementing any DRMAA compatible resource manager such as Sun Grid Engine among others with a shared folder among work nodes but a more flexible infrastructure (such as the cloud) is being studied.

Workflows in Wok are defined in an xml file with the .flow extension. This definition includes:
- the different modules (or pieces of processing)
- the interconnections between modules (i.e. the input of module B links with the output of module A)
- explicit dependencies (i.e. module A cannot be executed until module B has finished)
- descriptions that can be used to generate documentation automatically

Each module corresponds with a piece of software that has to be run. For now, only python scripts are allowed, but they can be used to wrap software written in other languages. 

It is recommended, but not necessary, that the workflow definition (.flow file) and the modules implementations are in the same folder. For example, the path where the flow is located is included in the PYTHONPATH automatically.

The execution of a workflow is started using a terminal with the wok-run.py script. It allows few options and the workflow definition file (myworkflow.flow) as the first argument:
- Configuration files (-c file.conf)
- Configuration parameters (-D param=value)

To monitor the execution of the workflow there are different resources available:
- The logs emited by the wok-run.py through the standard output
- The intermediate files generated by Wok, among them the tasks output.
- The web server that allows to use any internet browser. Recommended.
